docs: add custom webpack config docs (#2726)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/api-reference/custom-webpack-config.mdx

---
title: "Custom Webpack Config"
---

<Subtitle>

> The utilities allows you create a custom webpack configuration for a Merchant Center Application.

Reviewer: Maybe a typo here?
```suggestion
These utilities allows you create a custom webpack configuration for a Merchant Center Application.
```

> </Subtitle> 

Reviewer 2: When using JSX elements in MDX (at least in the current version), remember to keep empty lines between the JSX element and the content, otherwise the content won't be formatted.

```
<Subtitle>

My content

</Subtitle> 
```

However, I'm not sure we actually need this `Subtitle` section. I think we can omit it.

> # Installation
> 
> ```
> yarn add @commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts
> 
> # or
> 
> npm --save install @commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts
> ```

Reviewer 2: This part is not really necessary as `mc-scripts` is anyway required to be installed. I would focus more on describing the need and use cases for customizing the webpack config (which I'm missing a bit in this document).

For example:

```suggestion
By default Custom Applications include a webpack configuration to handle most of the common features like code transformation via Babel, loading CSS modules, loading images and SVGs, loading GraphQL documents, etc.

However, it could be that your application requires some extra functionality like loading a particular file type, using a specific webpack plugin or simply include other source files in your repository.

In order to extend the functionalities of webpack, you can define specific files in the root of your Custom Application project.
```

> # Usage
> To create a custom webpack configuration for a Merchant Center application, you can use `createWebpackConfigForProduction` for production and `createWebpackConfigForDevelopment` for development.
> These are factory functions used to create a default webpack config. They both accept some optional arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Usage

The webpack configuration can be customized for both development and production.
```

## Production

> For production mode, you should create a webpack.config.prod.(cjs, js) file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create a default webpack config.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we want to highlight the file name too. Just a thought. What do you think?

```suggestion
For production mode, you should create a `webpack.config.prod.(cjs, js)`file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create a default webpack config.
```

Author: Updated [34feac4](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2726/commits/34feac438079f8a73467cd11f8b54646bd207d3c)

> ## Production
> For production mode, you should create a `webpack.config.prod.(cjs, js)` file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create a default webpack config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## For production

For production mode, create a `webpack.config.prod.{js,cjs}` file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create and enhance the webpack configuration.

The Custom Application CLI will then use the configuration exported from this file instead of the default one.
```

> ```tsx title="webpack.config.prod.cjs"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```js title="webpack.config.prod.cjs"
```

> const { createWebpackConfigForProduction } = require("@commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const {
  createWebpackConfigForProduction
} = require("@commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts/webpack");
```

> const config = createWebpackConfigForProduction(options: TWebpackConfigOptions);
> 
> // you can include your webpack config by updating the default config object
> config.devtool: 'cheap-source-map'
> 
> module.exports = config; 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// 1. Create the default config.
const config = createWebpackConfigForProduction();

// 2. Customize the config.
config.module.rules = config.module.rules.concat({
  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// 3. Export the config.
module.exports = config; 
```

```

> ### options

Reviewer 2: Since most of the options are the same, I would move this into its own section on the page. I would also document only the more relevant and useful options, as some of them are mostly used internally.

So the structure of the page would be like:

```
(intro)

# Usage

# For development

# For production

# Options

## Including additional source folders
```

So in the `Options` section I would actually only document the `sourceFolders` option, as this is the most relevant one for users.

I think it would be better to use subsections so that we can describe the use case and provide examples. For `sourceFolders` I would suggest to name the section `Including additional source folders`.

If you need help with the content, let me know.

```ts
type TWebpackConfigOptions = {
  /**
   * The absolute path to the application entry point file.
   */
  entryPoint?: string;
  /**
   * A list of folders where Webpack should look for source files.
   */
  sourceFolders?: string[];
  /**
   * Options related to Postcss plugins. See `createPostcssConfig` function.
   */
  postcssOptions?: TPostcssConfigOptions;
  /**
   * Options to enable/disable certain functionalities of the Webpack config.
   */
  toggleFlags?: TWebpackConfigToggleFlagsForProduction
}

type TWebpackConfigToggleFlagsForProduction = {
  /**
   * Allow to disable index.html generation in case it's not necessary (e.g. for Storybook)
   */
  generateIndexHtml?: boolean;
  /**

>    * Some environemnts do not require `core-js` and can hence disable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Some environments do not require `core-js` and can hence disable
```

Author: Updated [34feac4](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2726/commits/34feac438079f8a73467cd11f8b54646bd207d3c)

   * it explicitly. This will disable `core-js` for `preset-env` and the
   * `plugin-transform-runtime`.
   */
  disableCoreJs?: boolean;
  /**
    * Allow to disable CSS extraction in case it's not necessary (e.g. for Storybook)
    */
  enableExtractCss?: boolean;
  /**
    * Some plugins spawn workers to speed up the build. However this can cause trouble on
    * certain machines local and CI. This flag set to limit or disable any parallelism.
    * Options:
    *    `true` to default to the machines number of CPUs
    *    `false` to disable any parallelism
    *    `int` for a specific number of CPUs
    */
  parallelism: true;
}

type TPostcssConfigOptions = {
  // A list of paths where to look for files used by the `@import` statements.
  postcssImportPaths?: string[];
  // A list of paths where to look for files with custom media queries.
  postcssCustomMediaPaths?: string[];
  // A list of paths where to look for files with custom properties.
  postcssCustomPropertiesPaths?: string[];
}
```

> ## For Development

Reviewer 2: I would move this before the "For production" section.

Also see the other suggestions that should be applied here as well.

> For development mode, you should create a webpack.config.dev.(cjs, js) file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForDevelopment` to create a default webpack config.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For development mode, you should create a `webpack.config.dev.(cjs, js)` file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForDevelopment` to create a default webpack config.
```

Author: Updated [34feac4](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2726/commits/34feac438079f8a73467cd11f8b54646bd207d3c)

---
title: "Custom Webpack Config"
---

By default Custom Applications include a webpack configuration to handle most of the common features like code transformation via Babel, loading CSS modules, loading images and SVGs, loading GraphQL documents, etc.
However, it could be that your application requires some extra functionality like loading a particular file type, using a specific webpack plugin or include other source files in your repository.

> To extend the functionalities of webpack, you can define specific files in the root of your Custom Application project.

Reviewer: I'm missing break lines in all the document so the formatting when rendering is a little bloated.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/97907068/181748398-23f593f5-b371-4c6f-97bc-783f6c9c7daf.png)

Author: Updated here [58556a2](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2726/commits/58556a221343fe9e085103183132b592279fe0bc)

Reviewer: I'm missing the break lines in the rest of this document's sections.
Also, it seems having an empty line is enough to add the breakline (no need for the `<br/>`.

You can take a look [here](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/main/website/src/content/api-reference/create-mc-app.mdx?plain=1), for example.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/97907068/182164549-e78dc742-d3cf-4ef3-aaad-0c354c7ced04.png)

Author: Updated here [7b17711](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2726/commits/7b17711077cc2936af454c93eabc2fe3c4462c5c)

// Create the default config
const config = createWebpackConfigForDevelopment();

// Customize the config
config.module.rules = config.module.rules.concat({
  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// Export the config
module.exports = config; 
```

# Production
For production mode, create a `webpack.config.prod.{js,cjs}` file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create and enhance the webpack configuration.
The Custom Application CLI will then use the configuration exported from this file instead of the default one.

```js title="webpack.config.prod.cjs"
const { createWebpackConfigForProduction } = require("@commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts/webpack");

// Create the default config
const config = createWebpackConfigForProduction();

// Customize the config
config.module.rules = config.module.rules.concat({
  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// Export the config
module.exports = config; 
```

# Options

## Include additional source folders

> You can list folders where Webpack should look for source files.

Reviewer: nit: I find it a not very helpful the code snippet with only the `sourceFolder` prop, specially since we have a more meaningful example below.

Also, I would explain whether providing this prop will override the default source folders or they will be concatenated to them.

Reviewer: Are we sure the provided source folders will overwrite the default ones?

Author: `options` [here](https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/blob/dac14c2bf0800eed6ddd1977d988a31b23a9c47e/packages/mc-scripts/src/config/create-webpack-config-for-production.ts#L59) replaces the `defaultOptions` which contain the values for the default `sourceFolders`

// Create the default config
const config = createWebpackConfigForDevelopment();

// Customize the config
config.module.rules = config.module.rules.concat({
  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// Export the config
module.exports = config; 
```

# Production
For production mode, create a `webpack.config.prod.{js,cjs}` file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create and enhance the webpack configuration.

The Custom Application CLI will then use the configuration exported from this file instead of the default one.

```js title="webpack.config.prod.cjs"
const { createWebpackConfigForProduction } = require("@commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts/webpack");

// Create the default config
const config = createWebpackConfigForProduction();

// Customize the config
config.module.rules = config.module.rules.concat({
  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// Export the config
module.exports = config; 
```

# Options

## Include additional source folders

> You can provide a list of folders path to be included when webpack scans your project for source files by making use of the `sourceFolders` property. 
> 
> The Provided list of folders overrides the default source folders in the config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can provide a list of folders path to be included when webpack scans your project for source files by making use of the `sourceFolders` option. 

<Info>

The default folders configuration includes the `./src` folder.

Passing the `sourceFolders` option will override the default value.

</Info>
```

  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// Export the config
module.exports = config; 
```

# Production
For production mode, create a `webpack.config.prod.{js,cjs}` file and use the function `createWebpackConfigForProduction` to create and enhance the webpack configuration.

The Custom Application CLI will then use the configuration exported from this file instead of the default one.

```js title="webpack.config.prod.cjs"
const { createWebpackConfigForProduction } = require("@commercetools-frontend/mc-scripts/webpack");

// Create the default config
const config = createWebpackConfigForProduction();

// Customize the config
config.module.rules = config.module.rules.concat({
  test: /\.scss$/,
  use: [
    require.resolve('style-loader'),
    require.resolve('css-loader'),
    require.resolve('sass-loader'),
  ],
});

// Export the config
module.exports = config; 
```

# Options

## Use custom source folders
You can provide a list of folders path to be included when webpack scans your project for source files by making use of the `sourceFolders` option. 

> <Info>
> The default folders configuration includes the `./src` folder.
> 
> Passing the `sourceFolders` option will override the default value.
> </Info>

Reviewer 2: Please remember to use blank lines between the JSX elements, otherwise the markdown formatting won't be applied.

```suggestion
<Info>

The default folders configuration includes the `./src` folder.

Passing the `sourceFolders` option will override the default value.

</Info>
```

Author: Thank you.
